[ Last modified 23 January 89 - Ken van Wyk ]

Welcome!  This is the  semi-monthly introduction posting   to VIRUS-L,
primarily for the benefit of any newcomers  to the list.   Many of you
have probably already seen  a message (or two...)  much like this, but
it does change from time to time, so I would appreciate it if you took
a couple of minutes to glance over it.



What is VIRUS-L?

It is an electronic mail discussion forum for sharing  information and
ideas about computer  viruses.  Discussions should include   (but  not
necessarily  be limited to): current  events  (virus sightings), virus
prevention    (practical  and   theoretical),    and  virus    related
questions/answers.   The list  is moderated  and digested.  That means
that  any message coming  in gets  sent  to  me,  the  editor.  I read
through the messages and make sure  that they adhere to the guidelines
of the list (see below) and add them to the  next digest.  Weekly logs
of digests are kept by the LISTSERV (see below  for  details on how to
get them).  For  those interested in statistics,  VIRUS-L is now (Jan.
23, 1989) up to 950  direct subscribers.  Of  those, approximately  80
are local redistribution accounts with an unknown number of readers.

As stated above, the list is digested and moderated.  As such, digests
go out when a) there are enough messages for  a digest, and  b) when I
put all incoming (relevant) messages into the digest.  Obviously, this
can   decrease   the  timeliness of urgent    messages such  as  virus
warnings/alerts.  For that, we have a sister list called VALERT-L.  It
is unmoderated  and undigested  - anything  going in  to the list goes
directly  out  to  all  the  subscribers, as  well  as  to VIRUS-L for
inclusion in the  next available  digest.   VALERT-L is for  the  sole
purpose of  rapidly sending out  virus alerts.   Anyone who  does  not
adhere to this  one guideline of  VALERT-L will be immediately removed
from the list.   That is, no news   is good  news.  Subscriptions  and
deletions to  VALERT-L are  handled identically as  those  for VIRUS-L
(see instructions below).


What VIRUS-L is *NOT*?

A place to  spread hype about  computer  viruses;  we already have the
Press for that.  :-) A place to sell things, to panhandle, or to flame
other subscribers.  If anyone *REALLY* feels the need to flame someone
else for something that they may have  said, then the flame  should be
sent directly to that person and/or to the list moderator  (that would
be me, <LUKEN@LEHIIBM1.BITNET>).


How do I get on the mailing list?

Well, if you are  reading this, chances are *real  good* that  you are
already on the list.  However, perhaps this  document was given to you
by a friend or colleague...  So, to get onto the VIRUS-L mailing list,
send a mail message to <LISTSERV@LEHIIBM1.BITNET>.  In the body of the
message, say nothing more than SUB  VIRUS-L your name.  LISTSERV  is a
program which automates mailing lists such as VIRUS-L.  As long as you
are either on BITNET, or any network accessible to BITNET via gateway,
this  should work.  Within  a short time, you will  be  placed  on the
mailing list, and you will get confirmation via e-mail.


How do I get OFF of the list?

If, in  the unlikely  event, you should  happen  to want to be removed
from  the   VIRUS-L     discussion    list,   just    send   mail   to
<LISTSERV@LEHIIBM1.BITNET>  saying  SIGNOFF VIRUS-L.   People, such as
students, whose accounts are going to be closed (for example, over the
summer...) - PLEASE signoff of  the list before  you leave.  Also,  be
sure to send your signoff request to the LISTSERV and  not to the list
itself.  Note that the appropriate node  name is LEHIIBM1, not LEHIGH;
we have a node called LEHIGH, but they are *NOT* one and the same.


How do I send a message to the list?

Just send electronic mail  to  <VIRUS-L@LEHIIBM1.BITNET>  and it  will
automatically be sent to the editor for possible inclusion in the next
digest to go out.


What does VIRUS-L have to offer?

All  VIRUS-L  digests  are stored in  weekly   log  files which can be
downloaded by  any user on  (or off) the mailing  list.  Note that the
log files contain all of the digests from a particular week.  There is
also a small archive  of some of the  public anti-virus programs which
are currently available.  This  archive, too,  can be accessed  by any
user.  All  of this is  handled automatically by the  LISTSERV here at
Lehigh University (<LISTSERV@LEHIIBM1.BITNET>).


How do I get files (including log files) from the LISTSERV?

Well, you will first want  to know what  files are   available on  the
LISTSERV.  To do this, send mail  to <LISTSERV@LEHIIBM1.BITNET> saying
INDEX VIRUS-L.   Note   that filenames/extensions  are  separated by a
space, and not by a period.  Once  you  have decided which file(s) you
want,  send   mail to  <LISTSERV@LEHIIBM1.BITNET> saying  GET filename
filetype.  For example, GET VIRUS-L LOG8804 would get the  file called
VIRUS-L LOG8804 (which happens to be the  monthly  log of all messages
sent to VIRUS-L during   April,  1988).  Note  that, starting  June 6,
1988, the logs  are weekly.  The  new file format is  VIRUS-L LOGyymmx
where yy is  the year  (88, 89, etc.),  mm is the  month, and x is the
week (A, B, etc.).  Readers who prefer digest format lists should read
the  weekly logs  and sign   off   of   the  list  itself.  Subsequent
submissions to the list should be sent to me for forwarding.

Also available is a  LISTSERV at SCFVM which  contains more anti-virus
software.   This  LISTSERV  can  be  accessed  in  the  same manner as
outlined   above,   with  the    exceptions  that    the  address   is
<LISTSERV@SCFVM.BITNET> and that the commands to  use are INDEX PUBLIC
and GET filename filetype PUBLIC.


What is uuencode/uudecode, and why might I need them?

Uuencode and uudecode are two programs which convert binary files into
text (ASCII) files and back  again.  This  is so binary  files can  be
easily transferred via  electronic mail.  Many  of  the files on  this
LISTSERV  are binary files  which are stored in uuencoded  format (the
file types will be  UUE).  Both uuencode  and  uudecode  are available
from the LISTSERV.  Uudecode is available in BASIC and in Turbo Pascal
here.  Uuencode is available in Turbo  Pascal.  Also, there  is a very
good binary-only uuencode/uudecode  package on the LISTSERV  which  is
stored in uuencoded format.


Why have posting guidelines?

To keep the discussions on-track with what the list is intended to be;
a vehicle for virus  discussions.   This will keep the network traffic
to a minimum and, hopefully, the quality of the content of the mail to
a maximum.



What are the guidelines?

     Try to keep messages relatively short and to the  point, but with
     all relevant information included.   This serves a  dual purpose;
     it keeps network traffic to  a necessary minimum, and it improves
     the likelihood of readers reading your entire  message.

     Personal information and  .signatures  should   be  kept to   the
     generally accepted maximum of 5   lines of text.  The editor  may
     opt  to shorten  some lengthy   signatures (without deleting  any
     relevant  information, of course).  Within   those  5 lines, feel
     free to be a bit, er, creative if you wish.

     Anyone  sending  messages   containing, for  example,   technical
     information should   *PLEASE*  try  to  confirm their  sources of
     information.  When possible, site  these sources.  Speculating is
     frowned upon -  it merely  adds confusion.  This editor does  not
     have the time to confirm all contributions  to  the list, and may
     opt to discard messages which do not appear to have valid sources
     of information.

     All messages sent  to  the list  should have appropriate  subject
     lines.  The subject lines should  include the type of computer to
     which the message  refers, when applicable.  E.g., Subject: Brain
     virus detection (PC).  Messages without appropriate subject lines
     *STAND A GOOD CHANCE OF NOT BEING INCLUDED IN A DIGEST*.

     As already  stated, there will  be no flames  on the list.   Such
     messages will be discarded.

     The same goes for any commercial plugs or panhandling.

     Submissions  should be directly   or indirectly   related  to the
     subject of computer viruses.  This one is particularly important,
     other subscribers really  do not want to  read  about things that
     are  not  relevant  -    it only  adds to  network    traffic and
     frustration for the people reading the list.

     Responses to queries should be sent  to the author of  the query,
     not to the entire list.  The author should then send a summary of
     his/her responses to the list at a later date.

     "Automatic  answering machine" programs (the ones  which reply to
     e-mail for you when you are gone) should be set to *NOT* reply to
     VIRUS-L.  Such  responses sent to  the entire list are  very rude
     and will be treated as such.

     When sending in a submission, try  to see whether or  not someone
     else  may have just said  the same  thing.   This is particularly
     important when  responding to postings   from someone else (which
     should be sent to that person *anyway*).  Redundant messages will
     be sent back to their author(s).

Thank-you for your time  and for your  adherence to these  guidelines.
Comments and suggestions, as always, are invited.  Please address them
to me, <LUKEN@LEHIIBM1.BITNET> or <luken@Spot.CC.Lehigh.EDU>.


Ken van Wyk